Finally, we talk about some issues that might face us shall we
decide to pursue a data lake solution.
So the data lake is prone to being
chaotic and sometimes they call it being prone to being
a garbage dump that everyone puts everything inside without knowing
actually how to use it and then one gets lost and no one knows even what's inside.
So that would be the extreme case of abusing this thing of all data is welcomed.
There has been some efforts into putting measures and practices as for instance,
like the tape metadata as you have to document everything that goes in and how to
document it and the lifecycle of this data and so forth.
But it's still not
as a mastered art as it is the case for example in how to manage a data warehouse.
Also, since a major feature of the data lake is basically everything
is open or desirably,
it's encouraged that you want to make people join
datasets and see that like a complete picture.
Sometimes, you have problems with data governance that
you're either too close than enclosing everything, becoming restrictive,
or opening everything wide and seeing who has access to what,
deciding that might be a bit hard in a data lake.
Finally, should the data lake totally replace the data warehouse?
Should they work together?
Or should be used for originally like the initial case of offloading?
I guess the thing is that based on the case at hand,
one can decide that.
However, I think in most cases now the general verdict
is while you're going to have a data lake and the data warehouse,
however, you're going to have a smaller data warehouse.
You don't like get the totally of the data warehouse,
but lots of other things that could be done without a warehouse,
you can do them on data lake.
That said, even if you only have a data lake,
dimensional modeling is a very nice part for
the type of data where dimensional modeling is suited for.
If you still want to produce those business reports even if you have data lake,
nothing prevents you from doing
those dimensional ordering practices with the star schemas and OLAP cubes,
and that should still give you the same nice outcome and high value.